then David fled from Nath in Ramah and
then David fled from Nath in Ramah and Brenton said to Jonathan what have I
Brenton said to Jonathan what have I
Brenton said to Jonathan what have I done
done
done what is my iniquity and what is my sin
what is my iniquity and what is my sin
what is my iniquity and what is my sin before your father that he seeks my life
before your father that he seeks my life
before your father that he seeks my life by no means you shall not die indeed my
by no means you shall not die indeed my
by no means you shall not die indeed my father will do nothing either great or
father will do nothing either great or
father will do nothing either great or small without first telling me and why
small without first telling me and why
small without first telling me and why should my father hide this thing from me
should my father hide this thing from me
should my father hide this thing from me it is not so and David took an oath
it is not so and David took an oath
it is not so and David took an oath again your father certainly knows that I
again your father certainly knows that I
again your father certainly knows that I have found favor in your eyes and he has
have found favor in your eyes and he has
have found favor in your eyes and he has said do not let Jonathan know this lest
said do not let Jonathan know this lest
said do not let Jonathan know this lest he be grieved but truly as the Lord
he be grieved but truly as the Lord
he be grieved but truly as the Lord lives and as your soul lives there is
lives and as your soul lives there is
lives and as your soul lives there is but a step between me and death whatever
but a step between me and death whatever
but a step between me and death whatever you yourself desire I will do it for you
you yourself desire I will do it for you
you yourself desire I will do it for you indeed tomorrow is the new moon and I
indeed tomorrow is the new moon and I
indeed tomorrow is the new moon and I should not fail to sit with the king to
should not fail to sit with the king to
should not fail to sit with the king to eat but let me go that I may hide in the
eat but let me go that I may hide in the
eat but let me go that I may hide in the field until the third day at evening if
field until the third day at evening if
field until the third day at evening if your father misses me at all then st.
your father misses me at all then st.
your father misses me at all then st. David earnestly asked permission of me
David earnestly asked permission of me
David earnestly asked permission of me that he might run over to Bethlehem his
that he might run over to Bethlehem his
that he might run over to Bethlehem his City for there is a yearly sacrifice
City for there is a yearly sacrifice
City for there is a yearly sacrifice there for all the family if he says thus
there for all the family if he says thus
there for all the family if he says thus it is well your servant will be safe but
it is well your servant will be safe but
it is well your servant will be safe but if he is very angry be sure that evil is
if he is very angry be sure that evil is
if he is very angry be sure that evil is determined by him therefore you shall
determined by him therefore you shall
determined by him therefore you shall deal kindly with your servant for you
deal kindly with your servant for you
deal kindly with your servant for you have brought your servant into a
have brought your servant into a
have brought your servant into a covenant of the Lord with you
covenant of the Lord with you
covenant of the Lord with you nevertheless if there is iniquity in me
nevertheless if there is iniquity in me
nevertheless if there is iniquity in me kill me yourself for why should you
kill me yourself for why should you
kill me yourself for why should you bring me to your father far be it from
bring me to your father far be it from
bring me to your father far be it from you for if I knew certainly that evil
you for if I knew certainly that evil
you for if I knew certainly that evil was determined by my father to come upon
was determined by my father to come upon
was determined by my father to come upon you then would I not tell you who will
you then would I not tell you who will
you then would I not tell you who will tell me but what if your father answers
tell me but what if your father answers
tell me but what if your father answers you roughly come let us go out into the
you roughly come let us go out into the
you roughly come let us go out into the field so both of them went out into the
field so both of them went out into the
field so both of them went out into the field
field
field when Jonathan said to David the Lord God
when Jonathan said to David the Lord God
when Jonathan said to David the Lord God of Israel is witness when I have sounded
of Israel is witness when I have sounded
of Israel is witness when I have sounded out my father sometime tomorrow or the
out my father sometime tomorrow or the
out my father sometime tomorrow or the third day and indeed there is good
third day and indeed there is good
third day and indeed there is good toward David and I do not send to you
toward David and I do not send to you
toward David and I do not send to you and tell you
and tell you
and tell you may the Lord do so and much more to
may the Lord do so and much more to
may the Lord do so and much more to Jonathan but if it pleases my father to
Jonathan but if it pleases my father to
Jonathan but if it pleases my father to do you evil then I will report it to you
do you evil then I will report it to you
do you evil then I will report it to you and send you away that you may go in
and send you away that you may go in
and send you away that you may go in safety and the Lord be with you as he
safety and the Lord be with you as he
safety and the Lord be with you as he has been with my father and you shall
has been with my father and you shall
has been with my father and you shall not only show me the kindness of the
not only show me the kindness of the
not only show me the kindness of the Lord while I still live that I may not
Lord while I still live that I may not
Lord while I still live that I may not die but you shall not cut off your
die but you shall not cut off your
die but you shall not cut off your kindness from my house for ever
kindness from my house for ever
kindness from my house for ever no not when the Lord has cut off every
no not when the Lord has cut off every
no not when the Lord has cut off every one of the enemies of David from the
one of the enemies of David from the
one of the enemies of David from the face of the earth
face of the earth
face of the earth so Jonathan made a covenant with the
so Jonathan made a covenant with the
so Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David let the Lord require it
house of David let the Lord require it
house of David let the Lord require it at the hand of David's enemies now
at the hand of David's enemies now
at the hand of David's enemies now Jonathan again caused David to vow
Jonathan again caused David to vow
Jonathan again caused David to vow because he loved him for he loved him as
because he loved him for he loved him as
because he loved him for he loved him as he loved his own soul then Jonathan said
he loved his own soul then Jonathan said
he loved his own soul then Jonathan said to David tomorrow is the new moon and
to David tomorrow is the new moon and
to David tomorrow is the new moon and you will be missed because your seat
you will be missed because your seat
you will be missed because your seat will be empty and when you have stayed
will be empty and when you have stayed
will be empty and when you have stayed three days go down quickly and come to
three days go down quickly and come to
three days go down quickly and come to the place where you hid on the day of
the place where you hid on the day of
the place where you hid on the day of the deed and remain by the stone he saw
the deed and remain by the stone he saw
the deed and remain by the stone he saw then I will shoot three arrows to the
then I will shoot three arrows to the
then I will shoot three arrows to the side as though I shot at a target and
side as though I shot at a target and
side as though I shot at a target and there I will send a lad saying go find
there I will send a lad saying go find
there I will send a lad saying go find the arrows if I expressly say to the lad
the arrows if I expressly say to the lad
the arrows if I expressly say to the lad look the arrows are on this side of you
look the arrows are on this side of you
look the arrows are on this side of you get them in come then as the Lord lives
get them in come then as the Lord lives
get them in come then as the Lord lives there is safety for you and no harm but
there is safety for you and no harm but
there is safety for you and no harm but if I say thus to the young man look the
if I say thus to the young man look the
if I say thus to the young man look the arrows are beyond you go your way for
arrows are beyond you go your way for
arrows are beyond you go your way for the Lord has sent you away and as for
the Lord has sent you away and as for
the Lord has sent you away and as for the matter which you and I have spoken
the matter which you and I have spoken
the matter which you and I have spoken of indeed the Lord be between you and me
of indeed the Lord be between you and me
of indeed the Lord be between you and me forever
forever
forever then David hid in the field and when the
then David hid in the field and when the
then David hid in the field and when the new moon had come the King sat down to
new moon had come the King sat down to
new moon had come the King sat down to eat the feast
eat the feast
eat the feast [Music]
[Music]
[Music] of the King sat on his seat as at other
of the King sat on his seat as at other
of the King sat on his seat as at other times on a seat by the wall
times on a seat by the wall
times on a seat by the wall and Jonathan arose and Abner sat by soul
and Jonathan arose and Abner sat by soul
and Jonathan arose and Abner sat by soul side but David's place was empty
side but David's place was empty
side but David's place was empty nevertheless soul did not say anything
nevertheless soul did not say anything
nevertheless soul did not say anything that day for he thought something has
that day for he thought something has
that day for he thought something has happened to him he is unclean surely he
happened to him he is unclean surely he
happened to him he is unclean surely he is unclean and it happened the next day
is unclean and it happened the next day
is unclean and it happened the next day the second day of the month the David's
the second day of the month the David's
the second day of the month the David's place was empty and Saul said to
place was empty and Saul said to
place was empty and Saul said to Jonathan his son why is the son of Jesse
Jonathan his son why is the son of Jesse
Jonathan his son why is the son of Jesse not come to eat either yesterday or
not come to eat either yesterday or
not come to eat either yesterday or today David earnestly asked permission
today David earnestly asked permission
today David earnestly asked permission of me to go to Bethlehem and he said
of me to go to Bethlehem and he said
of me to go to Bethlehem and he said please let me go for our family has a
please let me go for our family has a
please let me go for our family has a sacrifice in the city and my brother has
sacrifice in the city and my brother has
sacrifice in the city and my brother has commanded me to be there and now if I
commanded me to be there and now if I
commanded me to be there and now if I have found favor in your eyes please let
have found favor in your eyes please let
have found favor in your eyes please let me get away and see my brothers
me get away and see my brothers
me get away and see my brothers therefore he has not come to the Kings
therefore he has not come to the Kings
therefore he has not come to the Kings table then Saul's anger was aroused
table then Saul's anger was aroused
table then Saul's anger was aroused against Jonathan and he said to him you
against Jonathan and he said to him you
against Jonathan and he said to him you tion about the first rebellious woman
tion about the first rebellious woman
tion about the first rebellious woman that you have chosen the son of Jesse to
that you have chosen the son of Jesse to
that you have chosen the son of Jesse to your own shame and to the shame of your
your own shame and to the shame of your
your own shame and to the shame of your mother's nakedness for as long as the
mother's nakedness for as long as the
mother's nakedness for as long as the son of Jesse lives on the earth you
son of Jesse lives on the earth you
son of Jesse lives on the earth you shall not be established nor your
shall not be established nor your
shall not be established nor your kingdom now therefore send and bring him
kingdom now therefore send and bring him
kingdom now therefore send and bring him to me
to me
to me I shall surely die why should he be
I shall surely die why should he be
I shall surely die why should he be killed what has he done and soul cast a
killed what has he done and soul cast a
killed what has he done and soul cast a spear at him to kill him by which
spear at him to kill him by which
spear at him to kill him by which Jonathan knew that it was determined by
Jonathan knew that it was determined by
Jonathan knew that it was determined by his father to kill David
his father to kill David
his father to kill David so Jonathan arose from the table in
so Jonathan arose from the table in
so Jonathan arose from the table in fierce anger and ate no food the second
fierce anger and ate no food the second
fierce anger and ate no food the second day of the month for he was grieved for
day of the month for he was grieved for
day of the month for he was grieved for David because his father had treated him
David because his father had treated him
David because his father had treated him shamefully and so it was in the morning
shamefully and so it was in the morning
shamefully and so it was in the morning that Jonathan went out into the field at
that Jonathan went out into the field at
that Jonathan went out into the field at the time appointed with David and a
the time appointed with David and a
the time appointed with David and a little lad was with him then he said to
little lad was with him then he said to
little lad was with him then he said to his lad now run find the arrows which I
his lad now run find the arrows which I
his lad now run find the arrows which I shoot as the lad ran he shot an arrow
shoot as the lad ran he shot an arrow
shoot as the lad ran he shot an arrow beyond him when the lad had come to the
beyond him when the lad had come to the
beyond him when the lad had come to the place where the arrow was which Jonathan
place where the arrow was which Jonathan
place where the arrow was which Jonathan had shot Jonathan cried out after the
had shot Jonathan cried out after the
had shot Jonathan cried out after the lad and said is not the arrow beyond you
lad and said is not the arrow beyond you
lad and said is not the arrow beyond you make haste hurry do not delay so
make haste hurry do not delay so
make haste hurry do not delay so Jonathan's lad gathered up the arrows
Jonathan's lad gathered up the arrows
Jonathan's lad gathered up the arrows and came back to his master but the lad
and came back to his master but the lad
and came back to his master but the lad did not know anything only Jonathan and
did not know anything only Jonathan and
did not know anything only Jonathan and David knew of the matter then Jonathan
David knew of the matter then Jonathan
David knew of the matter then Jonathan gave his weapon to his lad and said to
gave his weapon to his lad and said to
gave his weapon to his lad and said to him go carry them to the city as soon as
him go carry them to the city as soon as
him go carry them to the city as soon as the lad had gone David arose from a
the lad had gone David arose from a
the lad had gone David arose from a place toward the south fell on his face
place toward the south fell on his face
place toward the south fell on his face to the ground and bowed down three times
to the ground and bowed down three times
to the ground and bowed down three times and they kissed one another and they
and they kissed one another and they
and they kissed one another and they wept together but David mosa then
wept together but David mosa then
wept together but David mosa then Jonathan said to David go in peace since
Jonathan said to David go in peace since
Jonathan said to David go in peace since we have both sworn in the name of the
we have both sworn in the name of the
we have both sworn in the name of the Lord saying may the Lord be between you
Lord saying may the Lord be between you
Lord saying may the Lord be between you and me and between your descendants and
and me and between your descendants and
and me and between your descendants and my descendants forever so he arose and
my descendants forever so he arose and
my descendants forever so he arose and departed and Jonathan went into the city
departed and Jonathan went into the city
departed and Jonathan went into the city [Music]
[Music]
[Music] you